the basic squat so this is a fantastic
exercise to incorporate all the mobility
that you've been working on so that you
can demand your your ankles your knees
and your hips and then keeping your body
upright while you do the squat so
ideally you're getting in a position
where your feet I mean these no shoes
right now because I really like to be
able to feel the floor and and feel the
mobility and the support that I can have
and this is a great way to build up but
you can use shoes too of course and so
you want that tripod peeling with both
of your feet so you want pressure on
your big toe pressure on your baby toe
pressure on your heel and now you're
secure you're again your feet are
shoulder width apart maybe just a little
bit bigger and then here your knees
should be straight over your toes you
can have them out a little bit if that's
more comfortable for you too
as you're getting used to this position
and then from here though you want to
screw out your knee so you're turning
them out both ways right so both knees
are going to the outside and then as you
go down you're dropping your your pelvis
and you're continuing to push your knees
out as you go down so you want to be
able to go all the way down making sure
that you have good even pressure and
you're keeping your body up the whole
time and then you return to neutral so
as you learn to squat you want to be
able to use all the angles and the range
of motions of all these joints to be
able to get you down and up and then the
strengthen of all those muscles to pull
it together so that it's nice and easy
so below parallel is something you also
want to aim for you can always hold on
to a chair if you need but you're aiming
to get those knees out and then you're
dropping your pelvis below the knee
level so this is about parallel here
this is below parallel here and that's
what you're aiming for so if you're
starting out and you don't have any
mobility maybe this is what you're doing
that's fine keep working on that because
add as you continue to develop that and
do some other work for mobility on your
your joints you're gonna start to see
that you'll have better
ability so you're gonna do a set of ten
and you're going to aim to get all the
way down all the way down below parallel
and that guy so you want to do three
sets of ten and hit that gets easy of
course it will you certainly can add
some weight so kettlebell is a great
thing to add in I like to hold it upside
down it's very easy this way
and from here you're going down and at
the same position so you're really
pushing those knees out you're getting
good support with your feet you're
strengthening those feet because we've
been doing some feet exercises as well
and all the way down and back up and
then again you're just doing three sets
of ten and the and the heavier you go
the harder it is happen